Where could I get politically involved? So I wrote
letters to all of the clubs explaining to them
about the University Fund. So I get this letter
from this lawyer in Divine or Pleasant, and I
forget. He says, I was starting up a a gossip about
the Permanent University Fund that never could
be, nothing had been said about it. And somebody
from that club had given him the letter So then I
called Mr. Cherry and read him the letter. And he
said, well, Ms. Gonzalez, he's a lawyer. He should
know. And I said, well, this is what he wrote me. So I
drove up here, met with Mr. Cherry, and he said,
well, what can we do? I said, you need to write up
what the permanent university fund is, what it
will do if they break it, and put a little brochure
and send it to all the former students, and then put
it on the Texas Aggie. So that's what we did. I still
have some of those flyers that they were sent home.
And boy, they started. And at that time I was
working on, Martha Neese from the Valley and I were
working on the library bill to have standards to
have a library for so many students in each school.
And the senator from Conroe was working with us
because his wife was a librarian. And he had been,
he had lost a leg in Vietnam and the assistant to
Clemens at that time had lost a leg and they were
good friends. So we were working on a library bill,
and I was going, having to go to Austin and Martha
Neese and several other librarians to draw up a
bill with this senator. And we worked on that, and
we worked on the Permanent University Fund. We'd
take cookies to some of the legislators. And we
finally got that, Mr. Chair and I, in talking,
finally got it, you know, they didn't break it. And
we got our library bill through, and I said, oh,
never again. Now, what led you to be library
concerned? Librarian? Ever since I was a little
girl, I always wanted to be a librarian. All right.
And that led you to be interested in A&M's library?
Oh, yes. I served on the library council. If you
were giving advice to Texas A&M's leaders now
about today and the future of A&M, what advice
would you give them? I
would tell them that academics are stressed,
loyalty is stressed, but I think The thing that
they should keep in mind is where A&M came from.
That's what they should stress to the students,
how A&M evolved and what sacrifices were made to
have A&M. And not just rest on the glory right now of
being a great university. How did it come to be that
great university? See, that's what we're trying
to learn more of this.
Well I'm about finished. Can you think of anything
we've left out? No, like I said, don't let A&M lose
its traditions. Keep the students informed on how
A&M is about to be this great university. What
difference has it made in your life that your
brother and your husband and your son attended
Texas A&M? Well, it has made me very proud to be a
sister of, well, my seven brothers came here. My
oldest brother worked for A&M Experiment Station
for 50 years as an agronomer, and he's truly naggy.
I have, of course, my husband and my son. I have four
nieces that graduated from A&M and four nephews
that have graduated. And they have given us the
opportunity and given them the opportunity to
become very productive citizens and
outstanding. All right, then the next last
question is, what if someone walked up to you and
gave you a check for a million dollars with one
restriction, that you have to pass that check on to
Texas A&M, but you can decide the use A&M is to make
of that check. If you could be very, very, very
generous to A&M, what would you want your gift to
do? I would like my gift to do to expand the library,
expand the programs here at the Memorial Student
Center and the School for Teaching Excellence.
And in the library, any particular thing you'd
want them to do? Well,
just to where they could buy more books. More
reading material. I think we're stressing
technology too much. People need to sit and read
and lose themselves in a book, not just punch
machines.
Last question. What feelings do you carry in your
heart about Texas A&M? It's just wonderful
feelings, a feeling of pride. a feeling that I have
been part of A&M, and a feeling that we were welcome
here at A&M. That's a good ending.